README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Power Interruption Bot</h1>
This is a python telegram bot that shows you areas in 🇰🇪 that are scheduled for power interruption within a certain period of time.

## How it works

The bot parses the KPLC website once per week and downloads the latest pdf containing detained of areas to be affected by the planned power interruption.It then extracts data from the pdf and saves it to a text file.Unneccesary details are removed from the text file and the rest of the data is formated into a nested dictionary which is saved to a binary shelve file for easy access.Fine details of how everything works is in the code.

## Important Packages Used
- [Python-telegram-bot](https://pypi.org/project/python-telegram-bot/) --> An interface to interact with the python API.
- [Regex module](https://pypi.org/project/regex/) --> Mahorly used to remove unnecesary text from the data extracted from the pdf.
- [Textract](https://textract.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) --> Extracts data from the pdf doenloaded. 
- [Shelve module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/shelve.html) --> saves the nested dictionary.
- [Boutiful Soup](https://pypi.org/project/beautifulsoup4/) --> parses the kplc website and doenloads the latest pdf.

## How To Install Locally

- Create a folder to store the code
- At the terminal clone the repo `git clone https://github.com/n3tsploit/PowerOutage-Bot.git` or download the zip file of the code.
- inside the telebot folder create a .env file containing the API token of the telegram bot gotten from Bot father.
- start the bot by running the run.py file.
- In app.py file line 29, you can change the frequency in which the bot checks for updates in the kplc website.

## How To Use The Bot
You can get a working prototype of the bot here https://t.me/planned_power_outage_bot .

## Demo
https://www.loom.com/share/866e866f1f1d41019492f75e752f8651

*PS:Built for educational purposes, and it might contain outdated/erroneous information.*

Commit message:

chnged from using shelve file to using redis

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Power Interruption Bot</h1>
This python telegram bot displays locations in 🇰🇪  where power outages are expected to occur in the near future.

## Functionality
Once a week, the bot parses the KPLC website and gets the most recent PDF with a list of the places that will be affected by the scheduled power outage.

Following that, data is extracted from the pdf and saved to a text file.

Unneeded information is eliminated from the text file, and the remaining information is formatted as a nested dictionary and saved to Redis.
The code contains the specifics of how everything functions.

## Important Packages Used
- [Python-telegram-bot](https://pypi.org/project/python-telegram-bot/) --> An interface to interact with the python API.
- [Regex module](https://pypi.org/project/regex/) --> Mahorly used to remove unnecesary text from the data extracted from the pdf.
- [Textract](https://textract.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) --> Extracts data from the pdf doenloaded. 
- Redis --> saves the nested dictionary.
- [Boutiful Soup](https://pypi.org/project/beautifulsoup4/) --> parses the kplc website and doenloads the latest pdf.

## How To Install Locally

- Create a folder to store the code
- At the terminal clone the repo `git clone https://github.com/n3tsploit/PowerOutage-Bot.git` or download the zip file of the code.
- inside the telebot folder create a .env file containing the API token of the telegram bot gotten from Bot father.
- start the bot by running the run.py file.

## How To Use The Bot
You can get a working prototype of the bot here https://t.me/planned_power_outage_bot .

## Demo

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.loom.com/share/866e866f1f1d41019492f75e752f8651" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></iframe>

## Features to add
- [ ] Add an alert feature in which users will be notified if there is power interruption schduled in their county.

*PS:Built for educational purposes, and it might contain outdated/erroneous information.*
